---
title: Playable Races
layout: ~/layouts/Default.vue
---

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

## Human

Vanilla

## Wyrm

A very young dragon which has reached the point in its life where its size,
weight, and intelligence is comparable to an adult human. This period lasts
about 40 years, about the ages of 10-40, before they become too large to operate
at human scale and tire of mingling with "lesser species." (though some stories
tell of exceptional individuals who maintained some sort of ongoing relationship
with Dragons they met in their Wyrm age)

Wyrms have working wings, but limited flight duration and encumbrance. In ideal
flying conditions, the limit is irrelevant, but when flying in strong headwinds
or a storm the wyrm must make Brawn rolls against the wind strength to continue.
When attempting to carry significant weight while flying, the wyrm may only lift
20 + (15lbs \* Brawn).

Wyrms may not wield human equipment, but have natural armor in their scales and
natural weapons in their claws and teeth. While not capable of spewing a jet of
flame like their elder kin, wyrms can generate enough heat to burn targets they
bite or grapple, so long as they can get enough to eat.

## Wandering Spirit

A wandering spirit is a minor immortal being which, true to their name, wander
the world stopping at whatever sight or drama catches their attention, then
continuing on when they grow disinterested.

Though ageless, spirits can experience a death of sorts. If their material
bodies are mortally wounded their spirit will leave and disperse into the
surrounding landscape. Eventually, after some years, they will manifest a new
body but will have forgotten all but their most cherished memories.

From a distance, a spirit is almost indistinguishable from a human. On closer
examination one or more "exotic" features are evident. No one has yet discovered
if there is a rule to these features, typically it comes in the form very fine,
fae-like features but can also be something animalian or plantlike. Say, cat
ears or barkskin.

Spirits are known to adapt their physical characteristics to their surrounding
environment, provided they aren't in a place devoid of life. It takes some time
to attune themselves but once they do it can have some pretty drastic effects,
such as webbed feet and fingers for swimming in the Ocean or natural camouflage
while in a jungle.

Spirits are capable of using some simple human tools and armor, but find
anything more complex than a sword awkward to wield. Likewise they find heavy
armor even more restrictive than usual.

## Stone Dweller (Dwarf)

A subterranean race of short, stocky humanoids who may very well have been the
same race as humans many ages ago. Now their physiology has adapted fully to
life in complex tunnel networks.

They stand at an average of 3.5 feet tall. Their eyes are hypersensitive to
visible light and can detect some range of infrared. Their sense of hearing is
keen and they have small, bony spurs on their heels that allow that to detect
very faint vibrations in the ground.

Unfortunately, some of these adaptations make life on the surface somewhat
difficult. Lights that are merely bright to a Human are blinding to Stone
Dwellers. Aside from the minority of lineages that regularly traded with other
surface folk, all Stone Dwellers require special eyewear to travel during
daylight. Their skin is also very unaccustomed to UV radiation, but their long,
thick hair blocks most of it.

As their name might suggest, they are master masons and quarriers. Their
intricate tunnel architecture, hauntedly illuminated by deep, dim reds of
everember lights, is renowned the world round. Some Stone Dwellers have made
great fortunes by performing stone work for wealthy top-side patrons.

## Bofo

The Bofo are one of the more curious of the sentient races. At an average of 9
feet tall and with three muscled arms, they are an imposing sight at first
encounter. Those who don't run, however, soon find the Bofo to have a measured
and relaxed way about them. Not too unlike elephants.

In culture and life-style, they aren't too disimilar from humans. Perhaps in
large part to how they've cooperated with their human neighbors for ages with
little conflict. They have their own desires and ambitions, but they tend to be
simple things. A good mate, a good home, and good food.

But while their community life is virtually serene, they greatly admire heroism
in the face of outside dangers. They raise many valiant warriors who challenge
terrible beasts, marauders, and tyrant armies. It's not uncommon for them to
take on mercenary work as well, for which they are in high demand. The biggest
expense human armies typically have to front for their Bofo forces is the food
they consume.

One difficulty humans have with the Bofo, however, is their inability to speak.
Their heads are wide, short, and neckless. They have one vertically aligned eye
above every arm and a single mouth at the top of their head, which is only good
for eating and grunting. They breathe through gill-like flaps under their eyes.
Their primary forms of communication are scent and gestures, but they have some
gutteral sounds that they'll bellow from their mouth.

## Carapacts

A bipedal, insectoid race known for their natural stealth and agility. Carapacts
are able to communicate with each other via complex pheromone systems that seem
almost telepathic to other species. They are also capable of rough but
intelligable speech.

Carapacts are between Humans and Stone Dwellers in height, but rarely stand at
full height on account of their limb anatomy. They also have an array of wings,
but are incapable of full flight. They do, however, provide additional jump
height and aerial maneuverability.

Their exoskeleton provides some natural protection, equivalent to chain mail on
a human. They also have a long, retractable claw on either arm. It's also been
known for carapacts in some regions to have a poisoned spike instead.
