---
title: Othnell
layout: ~/layouts/Default.vue
---

import term from "~/components/Term.vue"

# {{ $frontmatter.title }}

> In a time of Tyrants, Titans, and Dark Mysteries the people of the land look
> to the **Judges** to deliver them from chaos. Wanderers seemingly sent by God
> who bring ruin to the unjust, slay monstrous beasts, and scatter the evil
> hiding in the shadows.

Othnell is a pen-and-paper RPG ruleset and accompanying ancient fantasy setting
to adventure within. The entirety of the ruleset is on this website along with
some tools to facilitate play.

If your display is wide enough, you should see two panels. This left panel will
always contain the currently opened section of the rules. The right panel will
contain the active tool (currently, a mockup of the Player Sheet).

\[Not yet implemented\] ~~If you're on a smaller display, then you can swap
between the two panels at any time by swiping left and right, or by clicking or
tapping the screen edges.~~

Throughout the Ruleset, you will see <term target="demo-term">Terms like
this</term>. Mouse over and hold (or tap on a touch device) to see a popup
giving a brief explanation of the term.

While written with a more niche gaming audience in mind, the rules are written
so that people new to many of the mechanics common in RPGs should be able to
understand as well.

## [Core Gameplay](core)

This section describes the core gameplay mechanics. That is, the actual things
you will do as a player.

**If you're completely new to the game, start here.**

## [Player Characters](characters)

This section is for creating and leveling your character as a Player. It's only
concerned with the intrinsic aspects of your character like personality or
physical build.

**This will be your first stop when making a new character, and you will come
back everytime your character "levels up."**

## [Combat](combat)

Eventually most good stories have a thrilling fight break out. This section
contains a formal explanation of how fighting works in this game. The game is,
by default, turn based. So this section explains the objective and de facto
approach to determing position, damage, turn order, and the like.

## [Magic Arts](magic)

As wills and steel clash, some look to supernatural forces to achieve their
goals. This section explains the types of magic usable by characters in this
world and how to use them.

## [Items](items)

It's hard to fight without a sword and hardly worth it without treasure. This
section details most items you would expect to interact with and how they fit
into the rules of the game.
